.TH fpcmake 5 "12 Dec 1999" FreePascal "Free Pascal Makefile.fpc format"
.SH NAME
Makefile.fpc \- Configuration file for fpcmake.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.SH DESCRIPTION

.B Makefile.fpc
is a plain ASCII file that contains a number of sections as in a Windows
.I ini
file. The following sections are recognized (in alphabetical order):
.TP
.B clean
Specifies rules for cleaning the directory of units and programs. 
The following entries are recognized:
.RS
.TP
.I units
names of all units that should be removed when cleaning. Don't specify
extensions, the makefile will append these by itself.
.TP
.I files
names of files that should be removed. Specify full filenames.
.RE
.TP
.B defaults
The defaults section contains some default settings. The following keywords
are recognized:
.RS
.TP

.RE
.TP
.B dirs
.TP
.B info
.TP
.B install
Contains instructions for installation of your units and programs. The
following keywods are recognized:
.RS
.TP
.I dirprefix
the directory below wchich all installs are done. This corresponds to the
.I \-\-prefix
argument to GNU 
.I configure
It is used for the installation of programs and units. By default, this is 
. /usr
on linux, and 
. /pp
on all other platforms.
.TP
.I dirbase 
The directory that is used as the base directory for the installation of
units. Default this is 
.I dirprefix 
appended with
.I /lib/fpc/FPC\_VERSION
for linux or simply the dirprefix on other platforms.
.RE
Units will be installed in the subdirectory 
.I units/$(OS\_TARGET)
of the 
.I dirbase
entry.
.TP
.B libs

.TP
.B packages
.TP
.B postsettings
.TP
.B presettings
.TP
.B rules
.TP
.B sections
.TP
.B targets
.TP
.B tools
.TP
.B zip

.SH SEE ALSO
.IP 
.BR  fpcmake (1)
.BR  ppc386 (1)
.BR  make (1)
