.TH h2pas 1 "12 Dec 1999" FreePascal "Free Pascal C header conversion utility"
.SH NAME
h2pas \- The C header to pascal unit conversion program.

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B h2pas
.I "[options] filename"

.SH DESCRIPTION

.B h2pas
attempts to convert a C header file to a pascal unit. 
it can handle most C constructs that one finds in a C header file,
and attempts to translate them to their pascal counterparts. see the 
'Constructs' section for a full description of what the translator can
handle.

.SH USAGE

H2pas is a command-line tool that translates a C header file to a spascal
unit. It reads the C header file and translates the C declarations to
equivalent pascal declarations that can be used to access code written in C.

The output of the h2pas program is written to a file with the same name as
the C header file that was used as input, but with the extension \fI.pp\fP.
The output file that h2pas creates can be customized in a number of ways by
means of many options.

.SH OPTIONS

The output of 
.B h2pas
can be controlled with the following options:


.TP
.B \-d 
use 
.I external;
for all procedure and function declarations.
.TP
.B \-D 
use 
.B external
.I libname 
.B name
.I 'func\_name'
for function and procedure declarations.
.TP
.B \-e 
Emit a series of constants instead of an enumeration type for the C 
.I enum
construct.
.TP
.B \-i
create an include file instead of a unit (omits the unit header).
.TP
.BI \-l " libname"
specify the library name for external function declarations.
.TP
.BI \-o " outfile"
Specify the output file name. Default is the input file name with 
the extension replaced by 
.I ".pp"
"."
.TP
.B \-p
use the letter  
.B P
in front of pointer type parameters instead of "^".
.TP
.B \-s
Strip comments from the input file. By default comments are converted
to comments, but they may be displaced, since a comment is handled by the
scanner.
.TP
.B \-t
prepend typedef type names with the letter
.B T
(used to follow Borland's convention that all types should be defined with
T).
.TP
.B \-v
replace pointer parameters by call by reference parameters.
Use with care because some calls can expect a NIL pointer.
.TP
.B \-w
Header file is a win32 header file (adds support for some special macros).
.TP
.B \-x
handle SYS\_TRAP of the PalmOS header files.
.SH SEE ALSO
.IP 
.BR  ppc386 (1)
.BR  ppumove (1)
