.TH ppdep 1 "9 June 1999" FreePascal "Free Pascal unit dependency tracking"
.SH NAME
ppdep \- The FPC Pascal unit dependency tracking program.

.SH SYNOPSIS

\fBppdep\fP [-DDefine] [-oFile] [-eext] [-V] [-h] [A[call]] file

.SH Description

\fBppdep\fP dumps the dependencies of a unit in a format that can be
understood by GNU \fBmake\fP. It writes these dependencies to standard 
output. It takes care of dependencies both in the interface and 
implemntation section of the unit, and it can handle conditional defines.

.SH Usage

You can invoke \fBppdep\fP with as the only required argument the name of the
file (program or unit) whose dependecies you wish to list. You don't need 
to specify an extension, by default \fB.pp\fP is assumed.

.SH Options

\fBppdep\fP has several options, which are case insensitive:

.IP \fI\-a[call]\fP 
This option tells \fBppdep\fP to generate a compiler call for the 
makefile. The compiler call will be generated for each file that 
is found in the current directory. If you do no specify an explicit 
compiler call, \fBppc386\fP is used.
.IP \fI\-dKeyword\fP
This option defines \fBkeyword\fP that can be used to verify conditional
defines. \fBppdep\fP understands conditional defines, you should use this
switch if the \fIuses\fP clause of the programs or units can contain conditional
defines.
.IP \fI\-eext\fP
This allows you to specify a different extension for the unit files.
By default, \fB.ppu\fP is assumed. This extension is written to the
makefile.
.IP \fI-f[call]\fP
This option tells \fBppdep\fP to generate a compiler call for the 
makefile. The compiler call will be generated only for the file that
was specified on the \fBppdep\fP command line. If you want to generate a
compiler call for each file found, use the \fI\-a\fP option.
If you do no specify an explicit compiler call, \fBppc386\fP is used.
.IP \fI\-h\fP 
Shows a short help screen.
.IP \fI\-ofile\fP 
This option allows you to specify a file to which the dependencies should be
written. By default the dependencies are written to standard output.
If you specify this option, the dependencies are written to \fBfile\fP
instead.
.IP \fI\-v\fP 
Writes some diagnostic messages. If you use this option, be sure to use
\fI\-o\fP as well, since the diagnostic messages will also be written to 
standard output.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.IP 
.BR  ppc386 (1)
.BR  ppumove (1)
.BR  make (1)
