.TH data2inc 1 "12 November 2004" "Free Pascal" "Binary to include file converter"
.SH NAME 
data2inc \- Free Pascal binary to pascal include file converter.

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B data2inc [-ABSVH] msgfile [incfile] [constname]

.SH DESCRIPTION

.B data2inc
reads a binary or text file and converts it to a pascal typed constant 
declaration.  The constant is an array of characters (zero based), in which 
each character's ascii value is the value of the byte at the offset
.I index
in the binary file. (index is the index in the array). If the input file is
a text file, options will be read from the file and an output file will be
generated according to the options encountered.

.SH USAGE

.B data2inc
with the 
.B \-B
option accepts a filename of a binary file, and needs the name of an include file
and constant name. The output is written to
.B incfile
The name of the constant 
.B constname
is mandatory for a binary file.

.B data2inc
without 
.B \-B 
option takes the name of a message description file as input. It will
process the message file and write the output as described in the message
file to 
.I incfile
.


.SH OPTIONS
data2inc has a small number of options to control its behaviour:

.TP
.B \-A
Write bytes instead of characters. The constant array will be an array of 
byte instead of an array of char. 
.TP
.B \-B
If this option is given, the 
.I msgfile
will be treated as a binary file.
.TP
.B \-H
emit a small helptext.
.TP
.B \-S 
.B data2inc
will write the output as an array of strings, or a 2 dimensional array of
characters.
.TP
.B \-V
Show the version number and exit.

.SH SEE ALSO
.IP 
.BR  ppc386 (1)
.BR  bin2obj (1)
