.TH delp 1 "12 Dec 1999" "Free Pascal" "Free Pascal file deletion tool"
.SH NAME
delp \- The Free Pascal file deletion tool.

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B delp [options] directory

.SH DESCRIPTION

.B delp
deletes files in the specified directory that are left over from a Free Pascal 
compilation process. It knows what files can be produced by the compile
steps and deletes any such files it finds. At the end it gives a summary of
the number of files that were deleted, together with the amount of bytes
freed by this process.

.SH USAGE

.B delp 
takes the following options at this time:
.TP
.B \-e
Delete all executable files as well. This option has no effect on Linux.
.TP
.B \-h 
Displays a short help message.
.TP
.B \-q
Be more quiet. Normally, delp gives a count of the number of files deleted.
If this option is given, no messages are displayed.

.SH FILE TYPES:
The following file types are recognized by the program and are deleted:
.TP
.I *.exe
Executable files under dos and windows. Only deleted if the 
.I \-e
option is given.
.TP
.I *.so *.dll
Shared libraries under linux and Windows.
.TP
.I *.tpu *.tpp *.tpw *.tr
Turbo Pascal compiled units.
.TP
.I *.log *.bak
Backup files and log files.
.TP
.I *.ppu *.o *.a *.s
Compiled units, object files, archives and assembler files created by the
Free Pascal compiler on Linux or Dos
.TP
.I *.ppw *.ow *.aw *.sw
Compiled units, object files, archives and assembler files created by the
Free Pascal compiler on Windows.
.TP
.I *.pp1 *.o1 *.a1 *.s1
Compiled units, object files, archives and assembler files created by the
Free Pascal compiler on the go321v1 platform.
.TP
.I *.ppo *.oo *.ao *.so
Compiled units, object files, archives and assembler files created by the
Free Pascal compiler on the OS/2 platform.
.TP
.I ppas.bat ppas.sh link.res fpcmaked
Batch files, link script and makefile utility files.
.SH SEE ALSO
.IP 
.BR  fpcmake (1)
.BR  ppc386 (1)
.BR  make (1)
