.TH fpcmake 1 "11 Jan 2005" "Free Pascal" "Free Pascal Makefile constructor"
.SH NAME
fpcmake \- The Free Pascal makefile constructor program.

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B fpcmake [-Ttarget] [-pwhrqvV] [filename [filename [filename]]]

.SH DESCRIPTION

.B fpcmake
reads a 
.I Makefile.fpc
and converts it to a 
.I Makefile
suitable for reading by GNU 
.I make
to compile your projects. It is similar in functionality to GNU 
.I autoconf 
or 
.I Imake
for making X projects.

.SH USAGE

.B fpcmake
accepts filenames of makefile description files as it's command-line
arguments. For each of these files it will create a 
.I Makefile 
in the same directory where the file is located, overwriting any
existing file with the same name.

If no options are given, it just attempts to read the file 
.I Makefile.fpc
in the current directory and tries to construct a Makefile from it.
any previously existing 
.I Makefile
will be erased. See 
.BR fpcmake (5)
for a description of the format of the
.I Makefile.fpc
file.

.SH OPTIONS
fpcmake has a small number of options to control it's behaviour:

.TP
.B \-h
Emit a short help text describing the use of
.B fpcmake
.TP
.B \-p
If this option is given, a package description file is generated as well as
a makefile.
.TP
.B \-q
Tells 
.B fpcmake
to be more quiet, i.e. emit less messages.
.TP
.B \-r
If this option is given, 
.B fpcmake
will recursively scan subdirectories for 
.B makefile.fpc
files and generate makefiles for them.
.TP
.B \-T
Specifies the targets for which 
.B fpcmake 
should generate makefiles. This can be a comma-separated list of target
systems, or the special identifier
.I all
which indicates that a makefile should be generated for all supported
platforms.
.TP
.B \-v
This option instructs
.B fpcmake
to be more verbose.
.TP
.B \-V
Print
.B fpcmake
version and exit.
.TP
.B \-w
This is the standard option and tells
.B fpcmake
to generate a makefile.

.SH SEE ALSO
.IP 
.BR  fpcmake (5)
.BR  ppc386 (1)
.BR  make (1)
