.TH h2paspp 1 "12 November 2004" "Free Pascal" "h2pas preprocessor"
.SH NAME 
h2paspp \- Free Pascal h2pas preprocessor program.

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B h2paspp [-doih] file1 ... filen

.SH DESCRIPTION

.B h2paspp
reads one or more C header files and preprocesses them, writing the result 
to files with the same name as the originals as it goes along. 
It does not accept all preprocesser tokens of C, but takes care of the following 
preprocessor directives:
.TP
.I #define symbol
Defines the new symbol
.I symbol
. Note that macros are not supported.
.TP
.I #if symbol
The text following this directive is included if
.I symbol 
is defined.
.TP
.I #ifdef symbol
The text following this directive is included if
.I symbol 
is defined.
.TP
.I #ifndef symbol
The text following this directive is included if
.I symbol 
is not defined.
.TP
.I #include filename
Include directives are removed, unless the 
.B \-I
option was given, in which case the include file is included and written to
the output file.
.TP
.I #undef symbol
The symbol
.I symbol
is undefined.

.SH USAGE

.B h2paspp
accepts one or more filenames and preprocesses them. It will read the
input, and write output to a file with the same name unless the 
.B \-o
option is given, in which case the file is written to the specified file.
Note that only one output filename can be given.


.SH OPTIONS
h2paspp has a small number of options to control its behaviour:

.TP
.B \-dsymbol
Define the symbol 
.I symbol
before processing is started.
.TP
.B \-h
emit a small helptext.
.TP
.B \-ooutfile
If this option is given, the output will be written to a file named
.I outfile
. Note that only one output file can be given.

.SH SEE ALSO
.IP 
.BR  ppc386 (1)
.BR  h2pas (1)
.BR  cpp (1)

