.TH makeskel 1 "11 November 2004" "Free Pascal" "FPC unit description file generator"
.SH NAME
makeskel \- generate description file for 
.B fpdoc.

.SH SYNOPSIS

\fBmakeskel\fP [--descr=filename] [--disable-arguments] 
[--disable-errors] [--disable-function-results] 
[--disable-private] [--disable-protected] 
[--disable-seealso] [--emit-class-separator] 
[--help] [--lang=language] [--output=filename] 
[--update]
--package=name --input=cmdline

.SH Description

.B makeskel
scans a Free Pascal unit source file and generates a skeleton description
file for it. It generates nodes for all identifiers found in the interface
section of the unit, although this behaviour can be adjusted with some
options. It can also update an existing XML file, and then emits only nodes
for identifiers for which no node exists yet.

.SH Usage

You can invoke 
.B makeskel
with as the only required arguments the 
.B input
and
.B package
arguments. It should at least contain the name of the unit file for which 
documentation should be generated and the name of the package to which the
unit belongs. The output of 
.B makeskel 
will go to standard output by default.

.SH Options

.B makeskel
has many options, most of them optional, defaults will be used in most
cases.

.TP
.BI \-\-descr=descfile
This option must be used in conjunction with the 
.I update 
option. It specifies the name of a description file
.B descfile
which must be updated. Note that the file must contain valid XML, or the
update will fail. This option can be specified more than once.
.TP
.BI \-\-disable-arguments
If this option is specified, 
.B makeskel
will not emit nodes for the arguments of functions and procedures. By
default, documentation nodes are emitted for functions and procedures as
well.
.TP
.BI \-\-disable-errors
By default, each documentation node will contain a 
.I errors
node as well (excep for identifiers where this has no use, such as function
arguments). If this option is specified, no 
.I errors
node will be generated.
.TP
.BI \-\-disable-function-results
By default, for functions, a 
.I result
node will be generated, to describe the result of the function. If this
option is specified, no function result node will be generated.
.TP
.BI \-\-disable-private
By default, documentation nodes are also generated for private fields or methods 
of a class. if this option is specified, the generation of nodes for private
fields or methods is skipped.
.TP
.B \-\-disable-protected
By default, documentation nodes are also generated for protected fields or
methods of a class. if this option is specified, the generation of nodes 
for protected fields or methods is skipped.
.TP
.B \-\-emit-class-separator
If this option is specified, a visible comment with the name of the class
for which documentation nodes will follow, is inserted between the nodes
of two classes, making navigation easier.
.TP
.BI \-\-help
Emit a short help text and exit.
.TP
.BI \-\-input=cmd
The input (source) file to process. Multiple input files can be specified.
The command may contain valid compiler options, currently the 
.I \-Fipath
(search path) and
.I \-dmacro
(define macro) options are recognized. 
.TP
.BI \-\-lang=language
Sets the language for the output file. This will mainly set the strings used
for the headers in various parts of the documentation files (by default
they're in english). Currently, valid options are
.RS
.TP
.I de 
German.
.TP
.I fr
French.
.TP
.I nl
Dutch.
.RE
.TP
.BI \-\-output=filename 
This option tells 
.B makeskel
where the output should go. If this option is not specified, the output is
sent to standard output (the screen).
.TP
.BI \-\-package=packagename
This option is required. It specifies the name of the package. All nodes
will be generated inside a node with 
.B name 
attribute
.I packagename.
.TP
.BI \-\-update
Turns on update mode. In this mode, the output is a file which contains only
the missing nodes to complete the documentation of the input files. The
existing nodes must be specified with the
.B descr
argument. Note that the output file may 
.I not
be the same as the input (description) nodes; A separate file must be
specified (or no file, in which case output goes to standard output.

.SH SEE ALSO
.IP 
.BR  ppc386 (1)
.BR  latex (1)
.BR  fpdoc (1)
