.TH delp 1 "12 Dec 1999" "Free Pascal" "FPC Windows binary post\-processor"
.SH NAME
postw32 \- Free Pascal Windows 32\-bit executable post processor.

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B postw32 [-vh] [-m subsystem] [-i file] [-V version] [-s size]

.SH DESCRIPTION

.B postw32
does some post-processing on a Windows 32 bit executable file or library.
It can set the windows subsystem, stack size, and file version.

.SH USAGE

.B postw32
needs at least 2 options. One is the input filename (option
.B -i
) and the other is one of the possible operations, with their arguments.

.SH OPTIONS

takes the following options at this time:
.TP
.B \-i file
specifies the input file to process. This option is a short notation for the
.B --input
option.
.TP
.B \-h 
Displays a short help message. This option is a short notation for the 
.B --help
option.
.TP
.B \-m subsystem
Set the subsystem (the application type) to either 
.i gui
or
.i console
Note that a gui application which writes to the command-line will cause an
error. This option is a short notation for the
.B \-\-subsystem
option.
.TP
.B \-s size
Set the stack size to 
.I size
bytes. This option is a short notation for the
.B \-\-stack 
option.
.TP
.B \-v
Be verbose about the operations that are performed. This option is a short
notation for the
.B \-\-verbose
option.
.TP
.B \-V M.N
Set the version of the file to 
.I M.N
, where 
.I M
and 
.I N
are 16 bit unsigned values. This option is a short notation for the
.B \-\-version
option.


.SH SEE ALSO
.IP 
.BR  fpc (1)
.BR  ppc386 (1)
