.TH ppdep 1 "9 June 1999" "Free Pascal" "Free Pascal unit dependency tracking"
.SH NAME
ppdep \- The FPC Pascal unit dependency tracking program.

.SH SYNOPSIS

\fBppdep\fP [-DDefine] [-oFile] [-eext] [-V] [-h] [A[call]] file

.SH Description

.B ppdep
dumps the dependencies of a unit in a format that can be
understood by GNU 
.B make
. It writes these dependencies to standard 
output. It takes care of dependencies both in the interface and 
implementation section of the unit, and it can handle conditional defines.

.SH Usage

You can invoke 
.B ppdep
with as the only required argument the name of the
file (program or unit) whose dependecies you wish to list. You don't need 
to specify an extension, by default 
.B .pp
is assumed.

.SH Options

.B ppdep
has several options, which are case insensitive:

.TP
.BI \-a call
This option tells 
.B ppdep
to generate a compiler call for the 
makefile. The compiler call will be generated for each file that 
is found in the current directory. If you do no specify an explicit 
compiler call, 
.B ppc386
is used.
.TP
.BI \-d keyword
This option defines 
.B keyword
that can be used to verify conditional
defines. 
.B ppdep
understands conditional defines, you should use this switch if the 
.I uses
clause of the programs or units can contain conditional defines.
.TP
.BI \-e ext
This allows you to specify a different extension for the unit files.
By default, 
.B .ppu
is assumed. This extension is written to the
makefile.
.TP
.BI \-f [call]
This option tells 
.B ppdep
to generate a compiler call for the 
makefile. The compiler call will be generated only for the file that
was specified on the 
.B ppdep
command line. If you want to generate a
compiler call for each file found, use the 
.I \-a
option.
If you do no specify an explicit compiler call, 
.B ppc386
is used.
.TP
.BI \-h 
Shows a short help screen.
.TP
.BI \-o file 
This option allows you to specify a file to which the dependencies should be
written. By default the dependencies are written to standard output.
If you specify this option, the dependencies are written to 
.B file

instead.
.TP
.BI \-v 
Writes some diagnostic messages. If you use this option, be sure to use
.I \-o
as well, since the diagnostic messages will also be written to 
standard output.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.IP 
.BR  ppc386 (1)
.BR  ppumove (1)
.BR  make (1)
