.TH unitdiff 1 "14 November 2004" "Free Pascal" "FPC unit difference viewer"
.SH NAME
unitdiff \- Describe differences in the interface of a FPC unit.

.SH SYNOPSIS

\fBunitdiff\fP [--disable-arguments] [--disable-private] [--disable-protected] 
[--help] [--lang=language] [--list] [--output=filename] [--sparse] file1 file2

.SH Description

.B unitdiff
scans one or two Free Pascal unit source files and either lists all
available identifiers, or describes the differences in identifiers
between the two units.

.SH Usage

You can invoke 
.B unitdiff
with as the only required argument a
.B input
filename. It will then simply list all available identifiers.

The regular use is to invoke
.B unitdiff
with
.B input1 input2
arguments. It will then show the difference in interface between the two
units, or list the available identifiers in both units. The output of 
.B unitdiff
will go to standard output by default.

.SH Options

.B unitdiff
has some options, most of them optional, defaults will be used in most
cases.

.TP
.BI \-\-disable-arguments
If this option is specified, 
.B unitdiff
will not check the arguments of functions and procedures. By
default, these are checked as well.
.TP
.BI \-\-disable-private
By default, private methods of classes are checked. if this option 
is specified, private fields or methods are not checked.
.TP
.B \-\-disable-protected
By default, protected  methods of classes are checked. if this option 
is specified, protected 
.I and
private fields or methods are not checked.
.TP
.BI \-\-help
Emit a short help text and exit.
.TP
.BI \-\-lang=language
Sets the language for the output file. This will mainly set the strings used
for the headers in various parts of the documentation files (by default
they're in english). Currently, valid options are
.RS
.TP
.I de 
German.
.TP
.I fr
French.
.TP
.I nl
Dutch.
.RE
.TP
.BI \-\-list 
If this option is specified, only the list of available identifiers will be
specified for the unit or units. If only 1 unit is specified, this option is
automatically assumed.
.TP
.BI \-\-output=filename 
This option tells 
.B unitdiff
where the output should go. If this option is not specified, the output is
sent to standard output (the screen).
.TP
.BI \-\-sparse
Turns on sparse mode. In this mode, the output will not contain the types of
the identifiers. Only the names of the identifiers are written to the
output. By default, also type descriptions are written.

.SH SEE ALSO
.IP 
.BR  ppc386 (1)
.BR  fpdoc (1)
