.TH fpc.cfg 5 "22 february 2002" FPC "FPC configuration file"
.SH NAME
fpc.cfg \- Free Pascal Compiler (FPC) configuration file, name derived from Free Pascal Compiler.

.SH DESCRIPTION
This is the main configuration file of the
.I Free Pascal Compiler (FPC)
.PP
All commandline options of the compiler (described in
.BR fpc (1)
) can be specified in fpc.cfg

When the configuration file is found, it is read, and the lines
it contains are treated like you typed them on the command line see
.BR fpc (1)
with some extra condtional possibilities.

.SH SYNTAX

You can specify comments in the configuration file with the # sign.
Everything from the # on will be ignored, unless it is one of the keywords (see below).

The compiler looks for the fpc.cfg file in the following places :
.PP
\	\fI\- Under Linux and unix\fP
.br
\	\	\- The current directory.
.br
\	\	\- Home directory, looks for .fpc.cfg
.br
\	\	\- The directory specified in the environment
.br
\	\	     variable PPC\_CONFIG\_PATH, and if it's not
.br
\	\	     set under compilerdir/../etc.
.br
\	\	\- If it is not yet found: in /etc.
.PP
\	\fI- Under all other OSes:\fP
.br
\	\	\- The current directory.
.br
\	\	\- The directory specified in the environment
.br
\	\	     variable  PPC\_CONFIG\_PATH.
.br
\	\	\- The directory where the compiler binary is.
.br

.PP
When the compiler has finished reading the configuration file, it continues
to treat the command line options.

One of the command\-line options allows you to specify a second configuration
file: Specifying \@foo on the command line will use file foo instead of fpc.cfg
and read further options from there. When the compiler has finished reading
this file, it continues to process the command line.

The configuration file allows some kind of preprocessing. It understands the
following directives, which you should place on the first column of a line :
.PP

\	#IFDEF
.br
\	#IFNDEF
.br
\	#ELSE
.br
\	#ENDIF
.br
\	#DEFINE
.br
\	#UNDEF
.br
\	#WRITE
.br
\	#INCLUDE
.br
\	#SECTION
.br
They work the same way as their $...  directive counterparts in Pascal: 

.IP \fI#IFDEF\fP
.RS
.IP \fISyntax\fP
#IFDEF name

Lines following #IFDEF are skipped read if the keyword "name"
following it is not defined.

They are read until the keywords #ELSE or #ENDIF are
encountered, after which normal processing is resumed.

.IP \fIExample\fP
#IFDEF VER0_99_12
.br
\-Fu/usr/lib/fpc/0.99.12/rtl
.br
#ENDIF
.br
.PP
In the above example, /usr/lib/fpc/0.99.12/rtl will be added to
the path if you're compiling with version 0.99.12 of the compiler.
.RE

.IP \fI#IFNDEF\fP
.RS
.IP \fISyntax\fP
#IFNDEF name

Lines following #IFDEF are skipped read if the keyword "name"
following it is defined.

They are read until the keywords #ELSE or #ENDIF are
encountered, after which normal processing is resumed.

.IP \fIExample\fP
#IFNDEF VER0_99_12
.br
-Fu/usr/lib/fpc/0.99.13/rtl
.br
#ENDIF
.PP
In the above example, /usr/lib/fpc/0.99.13/rtl will be added to
the path if you're NOT compiling with version 0.99.12 of the compiler.
.RE
.IP \fI#ELSE\fP
.RS
.IP \fISyntax\fP
#ELSE

#ELSE can be specified after a #IFDEF or #IFNDEF
directive as an alternative.
Lines following #ELSE are skipped read if the preceding #IFDEF
#IFNDEF was accepted.

They are skipped until the keyword #ENDIF is
encountered, after which normal processing is resumed.

.IP \fIExample\fP

#IFDEF VER0_99_12
.br
-Fu/usr/lib/fpc/0.99.12/rtl
.br
#ELSE
.br
-Fu/usr/lib/fpc/0.99.13/rtl
.br
#ENDIF
.br
.PP
In the above example, /usr/lib/fpc/0.99.12/rtl will be added to
the path if you're compiling with version 0.99.12 of the compiler,
otherwise /usr/lib/fpc/0.99.13/rtl will be added to the path.
.RE
.IP \fI#ENDIF\fP
.RS
.IP \fISyntax\fP
#ENDIF
.PP
#ENDIF marks the end of a block that started with #IF(N)DEF,
possibly with an #ELSE between it.
.RE

.IP \fI#DEFINE\fP
.RS
.IP \fISyntax\fP
#DEFINE name
.PP
#DEFINE defines a new keyword. This has the same effect as a
"\-dname"  command\-line option.
.RE

.IP \fI#UNDEF\fP
.RS
.IP \fISyntax\fP
#UNDEF name

#UNDEF un-defines a keyword if it existed.
This has the same effect as a "-uname" command-line option.
.RE

.IP \fI#WRITE\fP
.RS
.IP \fISyntax\fP
#WRITE Message Text

#WRITE writes "Message Text" to the screen.
This can be useful to display warnings if certain options are set.

.IP \fIExample\fP
#IFDEF DEBUG
.br
#WRITE Setting debugging ON...
.br
-g
.br
#ENDIF
.br

.PP
if "DEBUG is defined, this will produce a line

Setting debugging ON...

and will then switch on debugging information in the compiler.
.RE

.IP \fI#INCLUDE\fP
.RS
.IP \fISyntax\fP
#INCLUDE filename

#INCLUDE instructs the compiler to read the contents of
"filename" before continuing to process options in the current file.

This can be useful if you want to have a particular configuration file
for a project (or, under Unix like systems (such as Linux), in 
your home directory), but  still want to have the global options that are 
set in a global configuration file.

.IP \fIExample\fP
#IFDEF LINUX
.br
  #INCLUDE /etc/fpc.cfg
.br
#ELSE
.br
  #IFDEF GO32V2
.br
    #INCLUDE c:\\pp\\bin\\fpc.cfg
.br
  #ENDIF
.br
#ENDIF
.br
.PP
This will include /etc/fpc.cfg if you're on a unix like machine (like linux),
and will include c:\\pp\\bin\\fpc.cfg on a dos machine.
.RE
.IP \fI#SECTION\fP
.RS
.IP \fISyntax\fP
#SECTION name

The #SECTION directive acts as a #IFDEF directive, only
it doesn't require an #ENDIF directive. the special name COMMON
always exists, i.e. lines following #SECTION COMMON are always read.
.RE

.SH Example

A standard block often used in (the Linux version of) fpc.cfg is

-vwhin
.br
#IFDEF VER0_99_12
.br
 #IFDEF FPC_LINK_STATIC
.br
  \-Fu/usr/lib/fpc/0.99.12/rtl/static
.br
  \-Fu/usr/lib/fpc/0.99.12/units/static
.br
 #ENDIF
.br
 #IFDEF FPC_LINK_DYNAMIC
.br
  \-Fu/usr/lib/fpc/0.99.12/rtl/shared
.br
  \-Fu/usr/lib/fpc/0.99.12/units/shared
.br
 #ENDIF
.br
 \-Fu/usr/lib/fpc/0.99.12/rtl
.br
 \-Fu/usr/lib/fpc/0.99.12/units
.br
#ENDIF
.PP
The block is copied into the fpc.cfg file for each version you use (normally
the latest release  and the lastest developpers
snapshot.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR  fpc (1)
