.TH fpcmake 5 "12 Dec 1999" FreePascal "Free Pascal Makefile.fpc format"
.SH NAME
Makefile.fpc \- Configuration file for fpcmake.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.I Makefile.fpc
is a configuration file for the fpcmake command. Starting from this file a
.I Makefile 
is created to compile Free Pascal units and programs.

.SH DESCRIPTION

.B Makefile.fpc
is a plain ASCII file that contains a number of sections as in a Windows
.I ini
file. The following sections are recognized (in alphabetical order):
.TP
.B clean
Specifies rules for cleaning the directory of units and programs. 
The following entries are recognized:
.RS
.TP
.I units
names of all units that should be removed when cleaning. Don't specify
extensions, the makefile will append these by itself.
.TP
.I files
names of files that should be removed. Specify full filenames.
.RE
.TP
.B defaults
The defaults section contains some default settings. The following keywords
are recognized:
.RS
.TP

.RE
.TP
.B dirs
.TP
.B info
.TP
.B install
Contains instructions for installation of your units and programs. The
following keywods are recognized:
.RS
.TP
.I dirprefix
the directory below wchich all installs are done. This corresponds to the
.I \-\-prefix
argument to GNU 
.I configure
It is used for the installation of programs and units. By default, this is 
. /usr
on linux, and 
. /pp
on all other platforms.
.TP
.I dirbase 
The directory that is used as the base directory for the installation of
units. Default this is 
.I dirprefix 
appended with
.I /lib/fpc/FPC\_VERSION
for linux or simply the dirprefix on other platforms.
.RE
Units will be installed in the subdirectory 
.I units/$(OS\_TARGET)
of the 
.I dirbase
entry.
.TP
.B libs
This section specifies what units should be merged into a library, and what
external libraries are needed. It can contain the following keywords:
.RS
.TP
.I libname
the name of the library that should be created.
.TP
.I libunits
a comma-separated list of units that should be moved into one library.
.TP
.I needgcclib
a boolean value that specifies whether the gcc library is needed. This will
make sure that the path to the GCC library is inserted in the library search
path.
.TP
.I needotherlib
a boolean value that tells the makefile that other library directories will 
be needed.
.RE
.TP
.B packages
Which packages must be used. This section can contain the following keywords:
.RS
.TP 
.I packages
A comma-separated list of packages that are needed to compile the targets.
Valid for all platforms. In order to differentiate between platforms, you
can prepend the keyword
.I packages
with the OS you are compiling for, e.g. 
.I linuxpackages
if you want the makefile to use the listed packages on linux only.
.TP
.I fcl
This is a boolean value (0 or 1) that indicates whether the FCL is used.
.TP
.I rtl
This is a boolean value (0 or 1) that indicates whether the RTL should be
recompiled.
.RE
.TP
.B postsettings
Anything that is in this section will be inserted as-is in the makefile
.I after
the makefile rules that are generated by fpcmake, but 
.I before
the general configuration rules.
. In it, you cannot use variables that are defined by fpcmake rules, but you
can define additional rules and configuration variables. 
.TP
.B presettings
Anything that is in this section will be inserted as-is in the makefile
.I before
the makefile target rules that are generated by fpcmake. This means that 
you cannot use any variables that are normally defined by 
.TP
.B rules
In this section you can insert dependency rules and any other targets 
you wish to have. Do not insert 'default rules' here.
.TP
.B sections
Here you can specify which 'rule sections' should be included in the Makefile. 
The sections consist of a series of boolean keywords; each keyword decies
whether a particular section will be written to the makefile. By default,
all sections are written.
 
You can have the following boolean keywords in this section.
.RS
.TP
.I none
If this is set to true, then no sections are written.
.TP
.I units
If set to 
.I false
, 
.B fpcmake 
omits the rules for compiling units.
.TP
.I exes
If set to 
.I false
, 
.B fpcmake 
omits the rules for compiling executables.
.TP
.I loaders
If set to 
.I false
, 
.B fpcmake 
omits the rules for assembling assembler files.
.TP
.I examples
If set to 
.I false
, 
.B fpcmake 
omits the rules for compiling examples.
.TP
.I package
If set to 
.I false
, 
.B fpcmake 
omits the rules for making packages.
.TP
.I compile
If set to 
.I false
, 
.B fpcmake 
omits the generic rules for compiling pascal files.
.TP
.I depend
If set to 
.I false
, 
.B fpcmake 
omits the dependency rules.
.TP
.I install
If set to 
.I false
, 
.B fpcmake 
omits the rules for installing everything.
.TP
.I sourceinstall
If set to 
.I false
, 
.B fpcmake 
omits the rules for installing the sources.
.TP
.I zipinstall
If set to 
.I false
, 
.B fpcmake 
omits the rules for installing archives.
.TP
.I clean
If set to 
.I false
, 
.B fpcmake 
omits the rules for cleaning the directories.
.TP
.I libs
If set to 
.I false
, 
.B fpcmake 
omits the rules for making libraries.
.TP
.I command
If set to 
.I false
, 
.B fpcmake 
omits the rules for composing the command-line based on the various
variables.
.TP
.I exts
If set to 
.I false
, 
.B fpcmake 
omits the rules for making libraries.
.TP
.I dirs
If set to 
.I false
, 
.B fpcmake 
omits the rules for running make in subdirectories..
.TP
.I tools
If set to 
.I false
, 
.B fpcmake 
omits the rules for running some tools as the erchiver, UPX and zip.
.TP
.I info
If set to 
.I false
, 
.B fpcmake 
omits the rules for generating information.
.RE
.TP
.B targets
In this section you can define the various targets. The following keywords
can be used there:
.RS
.TP
.I dirs
A space separated list of directories where make should also be run.
.TP
.I examples
A space separated list of example programs that need to be compiled when
the user asks to compile the examples. Do not specify an extension, 
the extension will be appended.
.TP
.I loaders
A space separated list of names of assembler files that must be assembled.
Don't specify the extension, the extension will be appended.
.TP
.I programs
A space separated list of program names that need to be compiled. Do not
specify an extension, the extension will be appended.
.TP
.I rst
a list of 
.I rst
files that needs to be converted to 
.I .po 
files for use with GNU 
.B gettext
and internationalization routines.
.TP
.I units
A space separated list of unit names that need to be compiled. Do not
specify an extension, just the name of the unit as it would appear un a 
.I uses
clause is sufficient.
.RE
.TP
.B tools
In this section you can specify which tools are needed. Definitions to
use each of the listed tools will be inserted in the makefile, depending
on the setting in this section.

Each keyword is a boolean keyword; you can switch the use of a tool on or
off with it.

The following keywords are recognised:
.RS
.TP
.I toolppdep
Use 
.B ppdep 
the dependency tool. 
.I True
by default.
.TP
.I toolppumove
Use
.B ppumove
the Free Pascal unit mover.
.I True
by default.
.TP
.I toolppufiles
Use the 
.B ppufile
tool to determine dependencies of unit files.
.I True
by default.
.TP
.I toolsed
Use 
.B sed
the stream line editor.
.I False
by default.
.TP
.I tooldata2inc
use the 
.B data2inc 
tool to create include files from data files.
.I False
by default.
.TP
.I tooldiff
Use the GNU 
.B diff
tool.
.I False
by default.
.TP
.I toolcmp
Use the 
.B cmp
file comparer tool
.I False
by default.
.TP
.I toolupx
Use the
.B upx
executable packer
.I True
by default.
.TP
.I tooldate
use the 
.B date
date displaying tool.
.I True
by default.
.TP
.I toolzip
Use the
.B zip
file archiver. This is used by the zip targets.
.I True
by default.
.RE
.TP
.B zip
This section can be used to make zip files from the compiled units and
programs. By default all compiled units are zipped. The zip behaviour can
be influencd with the presettings and postsettings sections.

The following keywords can be used in this unit:
.RS
.TP
.I zipname
this file is the name of the zip file that will be produced.
.TP
.I ziptarget
is the name of a makefile target that will be executed before the zip is
made. By default this is the 
.I install
target.
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.IP 
.BR  fpcmake (1)
.BR  ppc386 (1)
.BR  make (1)
